Generally, of course, it is a conduct. It is a conduct, but it is a particularly kind of like
highlighting of the emotional conduct, emotional or emotions.
And those are, as in the teaching, what in the Buddha teaching gives different techniques for these
two, avoiding.
And using, or changing, using as path, path, and liberating, those are the four techniques the
greatest teacher Buddha presented.
The first one is, avoiding is like in basic Buddhism teachings, such as Vinaya teachings, trying to
always avoiding those emotional activities, so trying to be distant.
Distant from that, trying to distant ourselves from those emotional states.
So, emotion is not good. In particular, we are talking about bad emotions.
Emotional is like poison, and the poison is not good, and therefore, I like to be distant, and I am
going to avoid that as much as I can.
And that approach is the teaching in basic Buddhist teaching or Vinaya teachings.
Second teaching is changing that, or using that, changing that status. And that is, again, same
thing in the poison.
You see, poison is not good. Good is not good. But if you have the skill and the technique, oh, it
can change it, change it as medicines.
Or it can be, do something that, and it can be useful. It's not something that I have to avoid,
distant that completely reject that I have, I can use.
And that is in Mahayana approach, and what the Buddha's teaching, Buddha said, in one, in the Soth
ar teaching said, he used examples.
For example, the cities, cities, the, what's called, human manual, what's called human manual?
Human manual, human manual, or the cities, like this, separate, cities, separate, sewer, that's
what I have.
Sewers, cities, sewer can be very beneficial for growth of the sugar cane. That's what I said.
Cities, similarly, these emotions can be very beneficial to growth of the body together.
So you use them, you're not using that sewer as readily as it is, but you still reject that and
attract that sewer, sewer used growth of the sugar cane or the harvest, or used as manual.
So that is the Mahayana approach. And then, when the Mahayana approach, again, the same thing, same
as that boson, which is not really good.
Good is a boson, but you don't have to be rejected, you don't have to change it.
You use that very boson to bring your own splendor, good call it, good call it.
And that used examples in the Buddha teaching, piko. Piko can eat the boson, boson instead reject
it, it will help to the piko to bring the glories of the brightness of their feathers or whatever
that is, it's that.
And so they have the capability to use in the Mahayana teaching, always that we don't have to give
up all the samsara pleasures, and use that as same that we use brain realization to understand that
.
That with the mindfulness of the Mahayana teachings or the instructions of the Mahayana teaching,
it will bring growth and the development of the relaxation.
And then the Dzogji teaching is also, of course, for the beginning. Generally, it's all already
display of the raka, so it's nothing really wrong.
But however, for the beginning of practice in Dzogji, also we are not letting carry with that
emotions, and immediately not going to reject, not going to change trying to do something, or use
as that boson as a kind of separate entity.
But that very boson looks at that nature of the boson, and the boson is empty, the boson is the
wisdom.
So without doing all those activities, looking immediately to that nature of the emotions, and that
moment, you liberate it, you liberate it or transcend it into the wisdom.
And what all this does, it is all the same, it doesn't really hurt for the practitioners.
Whether you're avoiding, whether you're changing, whether you're using, whether you're liberating,
it's not hurting, but it's helping to grow and maintain and bring realization of our realization.